for weeks now there have been talks and
anticipation around a ceasefire deal to
end the conflict in Gaza and for weeks
those talks and that anticipation has
led to nothing could there be a
breakthrough this evening President
Biden's been speaking in the last few
hours and he said Israel had submitted a
comprehensive new proposal for a
ceasefire to end its war with Hamas the
plan would involve the withdrawal of
Israeli troops from populated areas of
Gaza as well as the release of Israeli
hostages the president said the proposal
has been sent to the Palestinian side
and he urged Hamas to accept it let's
have a listen to more of what the
president had to say for the past
several months my negotiators of foreign
policy intelligence community and like
have been relentlessly focused not just
on a ceasefire that would ever that
would inevitably be fragile and
temporary but on a durable end of the
war that's been the focus of durable end
of this war one that brings all the
hostages home ensures Israel's
security creates a better day after in
Gaza without Hamas and power and sets a
stage for political settlement that
provides a better future for Israelis
and Palestinians alike President Biden
speaking earlier at the White House
while joining me now is our Middle East
correspondent Hugo Baga Hugo what is
different in this new proposal that's
come from Israel because of course for
weeks now we've been hearing of
different offers and deals from both
sides yeah regini so this proposal is
very similar to a proposal that was put
forward by Egypt which has been acting
as a mediator in in these negotiations
so it is a three-phase proposal uh the
first phase is a six- we uh ceasefire
that would lead to the release of uh
some of the hostages who are now being
held in Gaza uh and that it would see
negotiations uh happened for a permanent
uh ceasefire so we know that yesterday
Hamas said that it would not engage in
negotiations uh before the end of the
war and uh and we've seen that here in
Israel the Prime Minister Benjamin
Netanyahu has rejected any idea of a
permanent ceasefire in Gaza uh before uh
the end of the war so and before he
could achieve the the goals of the war
so it's very interesting that this plan
has been announced by President Biden he
didn't mentioned uh prime minister
Benjamin Netanyahu and also you know we
know that this is very likely to be
unpopular with uh some supporters
far-right supporters of the Prime
Minister who have rejected the idea of
reaching a deal with Hamas they say that
uh the war must continue until Hamas is
defeated and also until all the hostages
are freed because they say that mil
pressure is the only way to bring the
hostages back and I think the president
described this deal as a truly uh
historic moment and he said uh that uh
you know he urged Hamas to accept this
deal he said that this deal was
presented to Hamas by qat which has also
been acting as mediators in these
negotiations and so Hugo what comes next
then we wait for a response from
Hamas yeah I think now you know the ball
is on hamas's Court and uh we are you
know waiting to see what kind of
reaction is going to come from uh Hamas
uh we're also waiting to hear from uh
prime minister Netanyahu from senior
Israeli officials uh the speech by
President Biden came after the start of
the Jewish holiday here so I think it's
going to take a little bit of time uh
before we hear from some key Israeli
officials but again uh prime minister
Netanyahu has been under pressure from
the families of the hostages who remain
in capital AC ity in Gaza and also from
uh International leaders to try to
present a proposal uh for a a a
ceasefire and on the other hand Hamas
has also been you know under a lot of
pressure to accept the deal because
obviously you know we've seen that uh
you know the the humanitarian crisis in
Gaza continues more than 36,000
Palestinians have been killed as a
result of this conflict so now a new
proposal being put forward by uh by the
Israelis according to President Biden so
I think now we're still waiting to hear
what kind of reaction is going to come
from Hamas here go Bea in Jerusalem
thank you very much for that and we're
just hearing uh from the Israeli Prime
Minister's office a statement here
that's come into us by the Reuters news
agency which says the Gaza war will not
end until all goals are achieved
including the return of all hostages and
the destruction of Hamas we'll bring you
more reaction from all sides to those
proposals which have been announced by
the White house to the program